So in the last lecture we discussed DCP and UDP which is to communication protocols and we'll start
this off by discussing ports because ports when talking about communication and especially in network
communication is an essential topic because the ports allow us to have multiple apps to use a network
connection meaning that we can have civil apps running on our device that is communicating over the
network because they rely on these different ports.
So on our device we have sixty five thousand five hundred thirty five ports which we can choose from
and softies ports are already assigned a steeple ports two different protocols which you will see in
a minute.
So a port can for example be seen in the end of an IP for example we have the IP right here and then
this is port 80 meaning that whatever communication that is going to happen here is to this IP on port
80.
So there is something listening on this IP at this port for some kind of information.
And as you see right here we have a lot of different ports.
So let's see what can be in these ports.
So on a network and when communicating over a network we have several protocols.
We have seen some of them before and the previous lectures.
But here we will refresh some of them and we'll kind of port the use and what they're used for and as
you see here we have different ports.
We have GDP hits GDP ism GDP is sage poultry and so on.
Some of them probably all we're all ready are quite familiar to you as you have been using their network
and using browsing on your browser.
So the most common protocol that you might have used is hey GDP or hated U.P.S. which we will discuss
in a minute as well.
And these most likely have some default ports assigned to them because since we use these protocols
so much in our everyday communication it makes sense to have default ports assigned to them but ports
used for FCP or is p also have default ports.
But even though they are default they can be changed meaning that you might see if DP communication
if you do a network scan that is not happening on the default port because the people who use this if
DP connection has changed the port you'll often see this when people try to put some kind of security
on the network communication even though it is not that secure because you can just scan for ports and
find out that this has changed but it will give you some kind of basis you to because if newbies are
trying to use the standard port they will not find anything but you should not just only change the
port of anything.
OK I'm I'm secure now you're not but we'll discuss that and later lectures.
So some of the protocols that we have if it's if BP which uses port 21 as its standard port and it uses
CCP protocol as its communication protocol which we discussed in the last lecture.
So if the P stands for file transfer protocol and we use this to transfer files over the network and
this is a secure communication type because our files is not encrypted meaning that anyone can airdrops
it Robyn and see what kind of information we are basically transferring and that is why we need a more
secure protocol which is SFP and that use a standard port twenty twenty twenty two and this is also
DCP this is the encrypted version of ATP and it uses Ice Age for its encryption.
And this is way more secure than FCP so if you're going to transfer anything online with several files
to web host then be sure to use as if to P just for good measure.
And then we have some TB most of you have already been interacting with the last two because when you
are mailing and having a mail client on your device you'll be using these protocols is a SMG piece then
for symbol mail transfer protocol and then that default port for this is 25.
This is also TGP as well as poetry which has 110 as a default port.
This protocol is used when we are transferring males.
So when you are transferring sending a mail from your client to your server and the servers then transferring
that to the receiving server for example if you're using Outlook you will use as a GP to transfer the
mail from your device to Microsoft server makes a full and transfer to for example Yahoo server and
then the user of the Yahoo Mail will then use this to get the last transfer and then we have popped
free which is the post office protocol 3 and that is basically protocol used to download mails from
the server.
So now to the last two protocol to rule go through in this lecture and these are as I mentioned hopefully
the ones that you have used the most because we are using them almost everyday when we are online on
the Internet.
So we have hated deeply and hated CBS This is similar to what we discussed with FTB and if Piers where
we have a secure version and a more secure version.
So for a heated copy we use port 80 and again the DP protocol this is stands for Hypertext Transfer
Protocol and we use this when communicating and reprocess you will most likely have seen it when you
have for example HP SLAs some address that come and you can have hate CBS SLAs something that come as
you see in the picture right here but this GDP is the unsecured version.
So when you are browsing the web your browser is basically sending a get request to a server to get
the information that you need in order to view this web page and all a web page is is basically a file
with some text inside.
So your Brussels say hey I need this file and information because my user is currently going to watch
Google.
So I need to see what is on the Google page and all the information that is transferred between you
and the server is all in clear text meaning that anyone can see whatever is getting transferred.
So this is not very smart when you are for example using people are Facebook or anywhere else where
you have personal information and passwords and that is why we have heat U.P.S. which uses the standard
port 443 over TGP.
This is the encrypted version of HP where we have a certificate between declined and server and he disappears
makes sure that the information that we are transferring is not in clear text.
And as mentioned this is what is the standard when using banking services or any other service that
have personal information.
So that is why it's so important to look for this Hey CPS and is that lock in the corner because then
you know that at least the certificate between you and the server has been signed and that the communication
should be somewhat encrypted.
However there can be some malicious attempts to bypass this but that is for another lecture.
But you should never transfer any personal information or log into any service where you just see a
heated GP and most likely if you're using chrome and all of which makes the server browse dos at will
but you will get recommended before looking that saying hey this is an unsecure Web site.
Do you want to enter personal information.
And also I have read that Google is now displaying search results based on whether people have did he
it.
Yes because HP is not just something that anyone should use anymore because in these days with so much
person information trending over the Web we should rely on G.P.S. as standard.
So this was a lecture about ports and some common protocols.